---
layout: post.njk
title: "Repost: Status Update"
date: 2025-07-11
tags: Life, Math
snippet: This was Reposted on July 12, 2026, originally from my Wordpress blog
  posted at https://hu1l.wordpress.com/2025/07/11/status-update/
---
I have not been posting on my blog recently. It is mostly because I took a break from math. The entire blog is focused on math and rants, so it is not really possible for me to write anything; the break had intended to keep me away from math, therefore writing about math was not truly ideal for me. 

The reason for the break was simple; I was too stressed so I wanted to take a break–Especially when my school just ended and I was burnt out already. Although the intent was typically valid,  it was arguable if I really deserved the break; I have not been so focused on my tasks even when I really needed to study, which resulted in an absolute failure. Yeah, that is true. Still, I can study harder when my break stops, and it is just one week.

Anyways, just a side note, I often get pointed out by my parents for how I constantly tell them my goal and never achieving them. Even writing about it hurts me because I am just so annoyed of it hearing for longer than 4 years, every week. Just to make excuses for myself, I always have these grand goals that I want to achieve. Have I ever achieved them? Maybe, I’m not sure to count which ones. See, the goals my parents remember is always the ones I failed to achieve, which are the extremely big ones–getting into top colleges, usamo, and stuff like that. The ones like getting straight A’s, getting into Jazz band, and submitting a paper to a essay competition, has been achieved, but does not give much impression. Adding to this, if my goal was to get a 4.6 gpa and has gotten a 4.4 gpa (which is still pretty good for me), have I failed to accomplish my goal or is it just that I have set a high bar? As I stated before, I always set my goals to be harder than my actual needs in order to successfully land on the need while reaching for the goal. Always debatable, but debate never interests my parents, and annoys me so much. Yet I am just a teen and I still love my parents; Maybe some teens might be able to relate to something like this where they pressure and distrust you but there is no way to explain because they don’t listen? I don’t know, but as I stated before, I love my parents and this one thing does not correlate to hate.

Just one more thing, I am trying develop a style of using more semicolons because I feel that it is something unique that I could obtain. I have been always chasing uniqueness. Uniqueness is worthy for me because it is something that you have that others can identify you for. It is honestly totally worthless  especially when you are artificially creating one. Complete waste of time, but I would be happy if my style in writing is noticeable by my peers by elements like my words (this one isn’t really artificial, however I am trying to avoid the words that AIs overly use, just like the word “However); Sentence structures; tone of my writing; and maybe even semicolons too. I heavily doubt that I am the only person creating something unique just for the sake of being unique, but I do want to get away from it at some point.
