---
layout: post.njk
title: "Repost: Reflection After AMC 12"
date: 2025-11-17
tags: Life, Math, Reflection
snippet: This was Reposted on July 12, 2026, originally from my Wordpress blog
  posted at https://hu1l.wordpress.com/2025/11/17/reflection-after-amc-12/
---
So it finally happened, and I have completed the test I have worked countless hours for. It all came down to this moment where I get to finally show off my skills. Unlike last year,  I was able to take it twice, one from my school and one from another location, which I would say was a nice choice. 

Before taking the test, I was averaging around 16 solved questions per past tests, including the ones that are considered harder than usual. After solving, my scores averaged around 90 – 115, and around 90 would be the score if I sillied few questions, and around 115 would be when I didn’t silly any questions. So before I took the actual test, one thing I had it in my mind was that I only needed to avoid any sillies, and I would be perfectly set for AIME and perhaps making it to USAMO. 

After spending about 20 hours a week in this crazy marching band season since August, it was hard to find some time to do math without sacrificing school work and such, and therefore I didn’t spend too much time doing math. I did try to spend at least 1 hour on math every day, sometimes it worked, and sometimes, it didn’t. I even utilized time at school to work on math. I solved usamts questions during my ap physics and ap calc class, and memorized formulas while I ate lunch. *What I said above is exaggeration. I didn’t do them every day, but I did do them often for me to mention it here.

Because of all these early school craziness, I was not expecting high score on AMC, and I was hoping a score of just 100+. A score that would get me to AIME, and enough score that if I got a perfect score on AIME, I would be making USAMO. Because AIME score is now doubled, this made sense, and 100 with even a score like 13 could get me to USAMO, so I feel like 100+ is a convenient score for me to expect.

The reason I thought I would be able to do so much better in AIME (100 AMC -> 13 AIME is a huge jump) is because 1. I would have more time to study for math; not spending 20 hours on marching band practice means that I get 20 more hours for me to study math every week. 2. I am more confident in slow paced thinking where I get on average 12 minutes to think about a problem rather than 3 minutes on a single problem. 3. I practiced more of AIME style questions, because the textbook I used was for KMO, and KMO is nothing like AMC but closer to AIME. AMC is often composed of some weird log or imaginary numbers, or ellipses, just to trick and throw off some contestants, and I was the one that would get thrown off by those questions.

So it’s finally the day for me to take AMC 12 A. I came home from early dismissal, and I took a nap, and solved few AMC p20-p25 range questions giving myself only 10 minutes on each questions, I wasn’t able to finish any of them and just peeked at the answer key. Then, I took the car ride to the testing site, and I was memorizing formulas and concentrating myself on the test the whole time. The testing site was a bit awkward, and nothing went flawlessly, but I still took the test. 

My strategy is usually to speed through p1 – p15 in like 30-40 min, because they were mostly easy in past tests, but no. It probably took me 15 minutes from p1 – p5. And I also couldn’t solve p5. The questions I got was simply unlucky for me. I didn’t really enjoy geometry and studied a lot of combinatorics and algebra, and there were barely any of them. I ended up solving 14 questions, guessing on 2 questions. I got 88.5 on the test, and 93 after p25 is voided.

I went home, deeply unsatisfied, and I was determined to get 110+ on AMC 12 B. I heard some people in the community saying, “Oh I expected 90 points but I ended up getting 120”, and it really brought my hopes up of getting a great score on the test. I studied mostly geometry, because I was unable to solve most of them, and everything in general. I found a great problem book that people use to study KMO, and I felt like I was set before I took the AMC 12B.

I woke up at 5AM, and took a shower and begin to do some problems to warm up my head a little bit. Again, I attempted harder questions but was unable to solve them. However, I was ready to do so well on the test. I have been preparing for this moment, and did perfect practice with AMC 12A. Nothing could go wrong and I was set for getting a good score on the test. At 8am, the test begin, and I was about to be in the test that would decide everything I was studying for. I approached p2, and misreading the question, waste about 10 minutes there. Desperately, I speed through the questions and look for the questions I am able to solve. Combinatorics. It was the safest territory I imagined of, and I was able to solve any combinatorics questions that came up to me, except the really hard ones. However, in p13 or so, a combinatorics question had appeared, and I solved it, but the answer was not present. Losing my calmness, I was suddenly halfway into the test, and only solved 7 questions. There were only harder questions to come, and yeah. I ended up guessing on a lot more of them, hoping I would get lucky.

After the day of the test, I checked the answer on aops, and I was excited that my answer for p25 (rulerbashed) and p24 (fakesolved) were correct. I came home and started to look through all the answer. I noticed that I did really horrible, making about 4 sillies, and misreading 2 questions. It was a big disappointment, but hopefully my 88.5 on AMC 12 will get me to AIME.

88.5 on AMC 12 after studying for more than 500 hours after getting 87 on AMC 10 is such a horrible story for me, and it is the worst as it could get. With this score, I don’t think USAMO qualification would even be possible unless I get a perfect score on AIME. I was disappointed, and this is my reflection:

After taking two tests, and dropping below expectation simply shows skill issue and lack of effort. I should have studied harder, and I regret the times I have been not focused, and just scrolling on my phone. However, I will not give up here. When I was growing up, things I did, never went according to my plan and never worked first try. This was my first try, and I can make it happen at AIME. Therefore I start grinding as hardest as I could right now. Even if I don’t qualify for AIME with my 12A score, I am going to study in case I regret later that I have wasted a month just doing nothing when I could have studied for AIME and made USAMO. Competing at IMO has been my dream since the start of this journey, and I don’t think I should just lose my dream when there is still even a slight possibility. 

Still confused why I got that score, I emailed and asked a famous math contest professional that could help me. He advised me to not look too into the scores because they fluctuate a lot depending on the circumstances, and to think about a problem for longer, since I was only thinking about a question for 15 minutes. 

While I was studying for Math Contests, I kept thinking about “what if I fail” scenarios. My plan then was to just study for other Olympiads such as USAPhO, but now that I have actually failed, I really don’t want to give up my dream this easily. 

Let me just qualify for AIME. I’ll get a perfect score on it.
