---
layout: post.njk
title: What the Best Leader Looks Like
date: 2026-07-13
tags:
  - Philosophy
  - Robotics
snippet: I am going to have to lead my robotics team and some part of science olympiad this year, so I really have been thinking of what the best leader looks like, so I can become one of them and lead my team to be successful. I could not really get into a great conclusion and it is still an open question.
---

I am going to have to lead my robotics team and some part of science oly this year, so I really have been thinking of what the best leader looks like, so I can become one of them and lead my team to be successful. With the world cup going on and the managers getting a lot of spotlight either if they are really good or bad. But one thing I would like to say is that there is a difference between a manager that leads the team and a captain of the team. The former is the one that leads the team but are not there while the team is performing, and the latter performs with the team. I want to focus more on the right captain. 

I want to start off by describing some of the captains that I have gone with throughout my high school. I don't have a lot of experience with captains, but I have a some. So maybe I can pick up some insights what can work best.

So the first one I can think of is a captain that has very strong opinions and want to control the team with their own opinions. Personally, my experience with this kind of captain has been pretty bad. It was one of the robotics captains, and when I was listening to his build ideas, I just felt like he was outdated and bringing up idealistic ideas that wasn't too realistic for us to do. I also cannot say much, because I left his team after I experienced that.

However, I feel like this type of leader could become a quite good leader. They have good qualities. They are hard workers and they work for the best for the team. It was just that for me, he was too restrictive and his opinions were just too obviously bad. 

Another leader I have experienced is a leader that just lets their members freely do whatever they want to do, and basically doesn't do anything meaningful for the team. This is the robotics captain I decided to stick with, and it's because he gave me more freedom and let me do whatever I wanted to do. He just didn't even care about my design decisions and he didn't really often show up to the meetings. And I was fine with it. Only thing that did bother me was the titles, and I was thinking, "If I am doing all the hard work and spending so much time researching, cadding and watching every matches for inspiration, how is he a captain and getting recognition for it". It was sometimes kind of discouraging, and I might have just felt like being lazy like him, if I wasn't too motivated and interested to make it to states and worlds in robotics.

So the things I can take from those two leaders are that: 1. I should really listen to the members and discuss it even if I disagree. 2. I should be working harder than other members to motivate them so they can be working hard for the team.

One thing I have to understand is that my team members are not like me. They might be more passionate then me, they might be less passionate, they might be willing to work hard, but not hard as me and would prefer not becoming overwhelmed from some club.  And I doubt that it would go great if I suddenly decide that I don't want to do robotics and just leave it up to my team members.

what I do have the ability to do is recruit the ones that I feel like will be a good fit for the club. I cannot really kick people out from the team and reject people when they want to join though. Still, I try to recruit the ones that are really going to work hard in robotics, and the ones that would get along with the team pretty well. I don't really care about passion, because the passion is something that I can teach and be built on someone. One behavior I don't like is just joining the club for the sake just being in the team, and just skipping every meeting. And I got a few members, right now, 3 including myself. 

3 isn't a big number, and if no other members that are hard working joins, then 3 is all we got. We have to do all aspects of robotics, and we have a pretty high goal for the team, which is making it to worlds, so we really have to do a lot. I obviously cannot just pour all the work and assign it to people expecting them to finish it. I don't want anyone quitting the team. So what I do is assign them as much work as possible and ask them if I am giving them too much work to do. I also do take over a bunch of work and try to show them, that I am covering a lot of work and they are not the only ones that are working. 

And I also don't want to take over too much as well. It might be a horrible mindset, but if there was anything that I learned from last year, it's that all of this is impossible if done alone, and even last year, without the amazing coder, it would have been impossible. Too much work to be done, and a team exists for a reason. 

I like the analogy one head coach of a LCK team has made, and it's that in a team game, you have to burden your teammates and trust them. Basically he said if you are in a situation where you are covering on direction and my teammate is facing and covering opposite direction, once you start to help out your teammate and cover the opposite direction, your teammate has to turn around and cover your area. It's just very inefficient. 

So my thought has been that if you assign something for your teammate and they say that they can pull it off, then you have to trust them, and that is the best way for the team to strive. 

Another thing that I was trying to implement connects to me disliking a captain that tries to take too much control. And basically what I am trying to do is that make me appear as a leader only when I am supposed to be, and just be part of the team and be equal with everyone else. It's kind of hard to do it, because I don't think anyone is really used to it and I am like just pulling everyone right now and I don't think that is a good place to be. Once the season starts, I could maybe get them motivated on their own without me pulling them. If they still aren't really motivated to do drive practices, I guess they don't belong in the team. But if they are motivated to be the best and make it to worlds and whatever, I believe that they will start posting announcements to the team and like question me and things like that.

I guess this isn't really going to a certain direction, and there isn't one clear answer. I have some things that I would like to implement, but still figuring it out. I constantly ask how I could be better or if there's anything I should change,  and my teammates always says that it's fine and it's kind of making me feel like I'm doing horrible and they are lying to me because they know I'm trying hard and they don't want to make me feel bad. I wouldn't worry this much if I got proper feedback, but well I am not so sure. One thing I can say for sure is that you have to get right teammates. Last year, when I asked someone to do something, they were always like "yea sure" and they just ended up not doing anything. This year, my teammates aren't like that, and it's pretty much the best people I could have gathered. So I hope that we can have a great season.
