---
layout: post.njk
title: "Repost: Why I was doing this: Reflection after a year"
date: 2026-06-27
tags:
  - Life
  - Reflection
  - Philosophy
  - Memory
  - Math
snippet: This was Reposted on July 12, 2026, originally from my Wordpress blog
  posted at
  https://hu1l.wordpress.com/2026/06/27/why-i-was-doing-this-reflection-after-a-year/
---
After I have failed everything I was going for, I came to think why these experiences has landed me no rewards. While I was reading over my posts from this blog, I realized that I wrote about my motivations about a year ago. The motivations really were: for an experience, joy, and for college (practical use).

It seems like many of what I said was true, but I have thought of more motivations, in addition to those ones, that I have been hiding or failed to recognize. I’ll start off with the ones that I have listed. 

Experience/Memory

In 6th grade or so, there was a time in my life where I was struggling, and I can remember things that happened very well, even without any documentations. Those memories always linger around me, and one of the core memories I have from those times is listening to music in my bed and getting very emotional, because that was the only thing I had to sympathize with me. Another thing I can remember clearly is at 1am, putting my wired earbuds on and listening to a 3hr study music and finishing an overdue math worksheet, with a light stand and light from my monitor brightening the worksheet while the entire house was dark. And I keep going back to those memories because it makes me happy, and I miss those times a lot. Now I know that whatever I do, I can look back on it and feel in a certain way. What I wanted to do myself was create great memories and when I think of myself in high school, I can think that it was overall a great experience and I can get emotional or nostalgic, which I quite like doing because thinking about those small moments makes me happy that I did those things. Another thing that I learned from suffering like that was how much the experience matters in what I was trying to do. Just the fact that I have studied overnight for days was a confidence booster. Now the reason I wanted to do AMC and F=ma and things like that are somewhat like that. I wanted to create a moment of success for myself where I can consistently come back and remind myself of how hard I can work and how I can achieve my goals if I truly desire to. I wanted an experience that would help me later in life, and the ones that makes me happy. I kind of was going towards that goal intentionally, because I was replaying like a set of music while grinding because I knew that the music is the key to reminding me of what was going on, and I was talking a lot of pictures during my journey because that is going to physically show that I actually did this. I also started documenting my journey, and I expressed all of my struggles through this blog, aops blog, or my physical journal. Honestly, I don’t really think. I have accomplished my goal of having a good memory point for myself, because all I can think of is just crying after not making the cutoffs, and how I felt after doing really bad. Still, I think it can come back to me a while later since it is still ongoing. I think this turned out to be a great experience so far because it was my first big failure,

Joy

I probably would not have started math or physics or even anything if I didn’t think it was fun. I was good at math, and I liked doing math, and the problems were fun to solve. But if I say that I did AMC for just pure joy of math, I think that is very misleading. When I was writing that post a year ago or even up until I took the AMC, I tried to force myself into thinking that I was purely doing this because I liked math and nothing else. From an US IMO team interview or genuinely any person that was successful in Olympiad will tell you that the motivations for doing these competitions should be because it is fun. That is why I wanted to believe that I was doing it for joy of doing math, because any other motivation seemed wrong. But why would I even choose to do competitions if it was only for the love of doing math? Like genuinely, if I just liked solving problems, why would I even bother to go to competitions? Because the competitions would be totally useless and just a waste of time if my goal was to solve as much fun problems as possible. I don’t like being forced to do geometry, just for the sake of doing the contest, but I still chose to do it. Now that isn’t the pure joy that I was discussing earlier, I am just preparing for the contest, and not because the math is fun. 

Here is a good insight for myself. I really love doing robotics, and despite all my teammates trolling, I still choose to get my team succeed throughout the competitions. If I just purely loved doing robotics, than I wouldn’t really have much problem just building things in my basement without any competitions without any interruptions from school trying to limit us and team members that doesn’t do anything. But the reason I chose to do the competition is because I find the aspect of the competitions to be fun as well. Meeting people, going through challenging situations that the competition gives, and beating others and winning things. That was also fun for me. So if I had to summarize the part about math, than I think it is true that I did love doing math. It takes a lot of dedication to do something for hours every day, and I don’t think I could have done it if it was biology. Just that the joy would have not have pointed me towards the competition, and it cannot be the primary motivator for me participating in these competitions.

College

I mean yeah obviously, but I really don’t think it was college that I was trying to impress by doing good in math competitions. I often see many people specifically targeting college and having college admissions as a motivation for anything they do in high school. But for me, I would really hate to do something that I do not want to do, even if it helps tremendously with my college application. If I wanted to look good on my college application, I would have done some club that was proven to send people into good colleges (debate, fbla, etc) but I just joined the ones that was interested in, and it was really horrible clubs to join if you were only aiming at college. Our SciOly team failed to qualify for states in my freshmen and sophomore year, and our robotics team has never qualified for states in a decade. College is almost never an motivation for me doing something. That is also why my college application looks a bit meh right now. But I think the people that are motivated by college admissions and just stay in a club without doing anything are basically fake and I don’t want to be like that.

Now that was long, but I will talk about some reasons I have discovered after not failing and thinking deeper into my motivations.

Wanting to be like people I looked up to

There are really a lot of amazing people in this planet, and I wanted to be like them too. There are a few, and I guess I will just go through some of them. First one is Randy Pausch. After watching his lectures in 7th grade, I came to think how amazing he was. He had a fantastic attitude for everything, he was smart, he was accepted among his peers, he worked hard, and he was influential. And if I had to pick one person that I want to be when I grow up, he is probably one of the people I would choose. Through his last lecture, he taught me to never stop dreaming, and with sufficient work, it is probably achievable, and to live looking for happiness at the same time too. I didn’t quite realize how impactful that lecture was to me, until I recently watched it and finally realized that all his words remained as my core beliefs. And one thing I find pretty funny is that at the end of the lecture, he says something like, “This isn’t for you guys, it’s for my kids” (And in his book he also explains that lecture was one thing he could leave off to his kids). And there I was, listening to his advice as a kid and growing up to a better person. Another person I want to be like is Crown (LOL player), and it is probably because I feel a lot of similarity between me and him, with the key difference being that he won the worlds championship after failing. One thing I find incredible about him is that even after losing at the highest level, he still managed to work so much harder than other players and became the best player. Like me, he didn’t start at an advantage, he was talented, but not as much as other players, but he still put in the massive amounts of work and beat them. That is kind of what I admired, and I wanted to be like him too. Despite starting late and everyone else already ahead of me, putting a lot of effort and overcoming the disadvantage. Those stories really motivated me to think that I can do this, and I can be like him.

Wanting acceptance

This is probably the biggest reason I did math competitions, and I was trying to hide it because I thought it was a completely wrong motivation to do it. I know anyone with a high self esteem would not do it for the sake of being accepted by everyone else, and I wanted to believe that I had a high self esteem, because low self esteem meant *weak* in my eyes. But the truth is: I had low self esteem and I wanted other people’s acceptance or them to confirm that I was indeed a great individual because of my capabilities. It is basically saying that I was doing this because I had desire to show off to other people by achieving something amazing despite having a disadvantage (started late, etc). This is probably not the only reason, but it is a significant reason to why I did those things. The reason why I felt like I have achieved nothing after not qualifying for AIME and USAPhO despite having a decent scores was because I had no award to even show that I even did this, and felt like that all my time studying as hard as possible has been wasted. For a moment, I thought that I gained nothing from the hard work, and it is probably because my primary focus was set to proving myself, and the competitions results did nothing but prove that I was wrong. 

And I think this motivation ties most of the motivations together, and explains why I did it the best. Experience/Memory mattered because I needed better self esteem and wanted confidence, and I kept looking backwards because the current myself was not enough. I thought competitions were fun because it was a way to prove myself to me and everyone that I was good. I wanted to get into a good college and show off how good I was. I wanted to repeat the inspirational and challenging stories that other people created to be admired like them. It makes a lot of sense when I think about it. I had low self esteem, and felt insecure about my grades and my performances, and it is natural for people to either avoid the insecurities or try to fix it. I guess that is what I did as well.

However, I don’t think wanting acceptance is a bad motivation. Rather it is probably a very common thing that motivates high school students. But it is just that there is so many ways that it can go wrong. Work hard cannot guarantee what other people thinks about you, and it is impossible to be liked by everyone. Do I want to regret my entire life because I chased something that is not possible to obtain and obsess over not getting an award because I feel like that is the problem? And that is not even the issue. Crown, the person I was talking about earlier, also said that he was seeking acceptance and believed that his hard work would pay off. But even when he won the world championship, people disliked him, they considered him lucky, and Crown never got what he wanted. It is not something that can be controlled, and it is silly to be chased, because if you achieve your goal of getting perfect score at IMO just to impress others and be accepted by others, it’s going to hurt you rather than reward you for putting in so much work.
